---
layout: politician2
title: m.a. baby
profile: 
  party: CPI
  constituency: Kollam
  state: Kerala
  education: 
    level: Graduate
    details: b.a degree(politics) completed on 1975
  photo: 
  sex: 
  caste: 
  religion: 
  current-office-title: 
  crime-accusation-instances: 1
  date-of-birth: 1956
  profession: 
  networth: 
    assets: 64,30,619
    liabilities: 3,12,500
  pan: 
  twitter: 
  website: 
  youtube-interview: 
  wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.com/wiki/M.A._Baby

candidature: 
  - election: Lok Sabha 2014
    myneta-link: http://myneta.info/ls2014/candidate.php?candidate_id=337
    affidavit-link: 
    expenses-link: 
    constituency: Kollam 
    party: CPI
    criminal-cases: 1
    assets: 64,30,619
    liabilities: 3,12,500
    result:  

crime-record: 
  - crime: 
    ipc: 
    details:  

date: 2014-01-28
version: 0.0.5
tags: 
---
##Summary
Marian Alexander Baby (Born 4 April 1954)is an Indian politician and one of the prominent leaders of Communist Party. He is also the Polit Bureau member of Communist Party of India (Marxist).
He has created a unique space of activism by integrating organisation politics, parliamentary politics and cultural domain. He was awarded the first Arjun Singh Award for the promotion of culture by Abhinav Rangamandal in 2013.
He is currently the MLA from Kundara constituency in Kerala.
Prior to this, he held the positions of Rajya Sabha Member and Education and culture Minister for Kerala.

Born on 5 April 1954 as the eighth child of Shri. P.M. Alexander and Smt. Lilly Alexander.His father,PM Alexander, was one of the first degree holders in Kollam ,who served as Head Master in different schools in Kollam.He lost his father while studying in Std 7.He completed BA degree course in Political Science from Sree Narayana College, Kollam. During emergency, he was arrested under DIR and tortured in jail. He could not write the final year examination and had to abandon formal education


##Education
{% include "education.html" %}


##Political Career
{% include "political-career.html" %}


##Criminal Record
{% include "criminal-record.html" %}


##Personal Wealth
{% include "personal-wealth.html" %}


##Public Office Track Record
{% include "track-record.html" %}


##References
Wikipedia References
- [Wikipedia profile]({{page.profile.wikipedia}}), accessed April 09, 2014.



{% include "references.html" %}